**Abstract**
In this study, we present an interpretable tactile model which was implemented on BioTacTip. This model can detect multi-point 3D contact forces in real time, enabling its applications to teleoperation systems. We achieve this by 1) introducing a novel image processing pipeline which utilizes clustering algorithm to detect the marker centroids in thresholded binary image and obtain their area-based intensity 2) reformulating the marker tracking problem to a point set registration(PSR) one, which can bypass the difficulty of long-term tracking and be robust to marker information loss during tracking. Specifically, we use coherent points drift algorithm to register the centroid set because its low computational complexity. In this model, the z-axis normal forces are interpreted as marker centroid intensity, while xy-planar sheer forces are interpreted as point set displacement compared to initial position where no external force applied.

**Contributions**
I.	A novel image processing pipeline for vision-based tactile sensors(VTBs): we assume that the normal contact force is a function of depth of pression, and we interpret the depth as a pixel intensity of clusters, which is obtained from DBSCAN algorithm that is performed onto processed binary image of markers. we obtained the principal contact points by finding the local maxima of interpreted intensity map using a gradient descent approach.
II.	A novel reformulation and solution to the marker displacement problem: we successfully adopted the coherent points drift(CPD) algorithm from point set registration(PSR) community to predict the marker displacements, by registering the partially observed marker centroids to their initial relaxion state. This method is robust, fast and can handle non-rigid transformation of point set, making it particularly suitable for solving marker displacement which can be subjected to challenges like noise caused by manufacturing defects and occlusion in markers under large deformation.
III.	Our method can maximally extract the information of existing design for BioTacTip and display it in an intuitive way, leveraging the advantage of rich contact information of VTBs and enabling its applications on teleoperation. We suggest it can be applied to more VTBs in the same type, e.g., the TacTip family.

